Design Doc: Calibration data storage

Author: Ben Garber
Date: 17 May 2016


Part 1: General data

Challenges:
  - File identification: How do we identify calibration files with the correct
MMFE8 boards?
  - Data expiration: How do we maintain up-to-date calibration data?

Discussion and thoughts:
  - Chris has suggested that everything be stored in ROOT files.  This is an
attractive solution because most of our analysis will be performed in ROOT and
therefore it will be very straight-forward to interface entirely with ROOT
files.  The question here seems to be whether to store data constructively or
destructively--that is, should we continue adding to existing ROOT files so that
we can always have access to the original data, or should we replace ROOT files
as we go along in order to decrease the amount of data we'll be storing?  It
seems to me that, whatever the benefits of keeping the original data, it may
make the most sense to store means and standard deviations and curve fits (if
they're good fits), simply because they're the kind of effective abstractions we
want to keep.
  - Using single-line trees to store identification data, or propagating it
through trees, can allow us to store identification data in the file with
calibration data in an easily-accessible way.  A good example is date, which can
be easily stored in a single-layer tree with YMD branches.  MMFE8 ID, on the
other hand, could be stored either as a single-layer tree or as another branch
on each of the data trees--this latter approach would allow us to put all
calibration data in the same ROOT file or two, potentially easing larger-scale
analysis.

Design:
  - Date tree: name "date", branches Year, Month, Day
  - Board identification: Ideally will be added as an additional branch of each
calibration data tree; for now, no identification will be performed.



Part 2: xADC / test pulse DAC calibration data

Considerations:
  - We generally want the difference between the high and low parts of the test
pulse, as well as the standard deviation of the difference and how good the fit
was for each Gaussian. We also want a curve fit of the output, which will
probably be a piecewise function with constant low-value, quadratic curve and
linear top.

Design:
  - For each TPDAC value for each VMM, means, standard deviations, and chi-
squared results for both the top and bottom Gaussians, all as branches on the
same tree.
    -- optionally, either in the same tree or in another tree means and standard
deviations for the difference.
  - Fit results for each VMM. 
